# Configerus Design

## Design principles

### Complex on construction, simple on use

There were some complexities which were unavoidable, so require them when
constructing Config objects, so that consumming config is easy.

While this does make construction more complex, it keeps clean design and allows
a single expert to setup a whole app, and other developers to keep simple use.

### Make it a plugin

If we could, we kept operational implementation in plugins, and made the core
recognize non-abstractable operations and convert them into plugin usage.

The reason for this is to allow the config mechanices to work with any plugin
set which means that any consumer can completely replace all functionality.

We even try to avoid loading plugins if not needed, other than two formatters
which we feel are very useful, and should be default.

Plugin registration and consumption is centralized and optimized.

### allow overrides external injection

Don't force consumers to rely on our functionality, but allow injection of
external code without having to fork the project.

You can add major dependency injection to configerus by implementing the
bootstrap mechanism, which uses a setuptools entrypoint to detect injection and
passed a config object to an arbitrary function which can do whatever it wants.

Plugins can be registered at run time using the Factory decorators.  This means
that you can make a plugin available just by importing the decorator at runtime
and using it.

These two methods allow small effort, and large impact injection of custom code.
